Alexandria (#70)
Joystream/helpdesk: tokenomics/kpis/README.md

<!-- TOC START min:1 max:3 link:true asterisk:false update:true -->
- [Overview](#overview)
  - [Token Issuance](#token-issuance)
    - [Inflationary Forces](#inflationary-forces)
    - [Deflationary Forces](#deflationary-forces)
  - [Fiat Pool](#fiat-pool)

>     - [Weekly Replinshment](#weekly-replinshment)

Author: Both of us are wrong :D
`Replenishment`

>     - [Weekly Replinshment](#weekly-replinshment)

Reviewer: oops...

### Inflationary Forces
There are many inflationary forces in the network, but not all of them will impact the exchange rate. The main ones are recurring rewards, and other costs associated with achieving KPIs.

Recurring rewards are currently paid to:
- [Validators](../roles/validators) for finding blocks, and keeping the network up and running
- [Council Members](../roles/council-members) for running the day to day operations, and managing spending and the budget through proposals
- [Storage Providers](../roles/storage-providers) for receiving, storing and serving content
- [Content Curators](../roles/content-curators) for curating said content, and the `Curator Lead` as the party responsible for managing them and the groups budget

Examples of other costs for achieving KPIs can be to [Content Creators](../roles/content-creators) for adding content, contributors rewarded through spending proposals, etc.

Tokens will also be minted for other purposes, such as faucets, competitions, [bounties](../roles/builders), etc. If the system is changed, some of these can impact the exchange rate in the future, but users will be warned in due time.

### Deflationary Forces

> Tokens that are slashed, e.g. for not performing in their roles, malicious or "spammy" proposals or undesirable behavior, will simply be burned, and increasing the exchange rate for everyone else. Transaction fees and role application costs are also burned.

Author: Should be `thus`, no?

KPIs are closely related to the new proposal system, so that the users can calculate the expected value of achieving individual KPIs, versus the anticipated (inflationary) cost of doing so.

## Tokenomics Examples

A rational user will continuously consider their options, and try to maximize their profits based on a variety of inputs such as:
- tJOY holdings
- the tJOY costs and returns associated with the available roles
- the USD costs of hardware, electricity and their time
- opportunity costs
- exchange rate changes from
  - tJOY issuance change
    - recurring role rewards
    - fees
    - slashes and tJOY burns
    - `Council` spending
  - fiat pool inflows and outflows
    - replenishment of fiat pool
    - KPIs achieved leading to an increased fiat pool

### Example A

Suppose there is `10,000 tJOY` in circulation, and `USD 1,000` represents the initial fiat pool. This means that the exchange rate is `0.1 tJOY/USD`.

> A user has `1,500 tJOY`, and after weighing their options and calculating the rate, they decide to cash in `500 tJOY`. They go to `<page>`, verify the exchange rate, and follow the instructions on how to cash in. After sumbitting and signing the transaction, a new pending exchange is displayed on the `<page>`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A user has `1,500 tJOY`, and after weighing their options and calculating the rate, they decide to cash in `500 tJOY`. They go to [this page](https://www.joystream.org/testnet/), verify the exchange rate, and follow the instructions on how to cash in. After sumbitting and signing the transaction, a new pending exchange is displayed on the [page](https://www.joystream.org/testnet/):
```

Currently, the status of the roles and rewards are:

**Storage Providers**

-   5 slots filled, 1 slot open
-   Stake is `3500 tJOY`, cost of entering is `200 tJOY`
-   Rewards are `4 tJOY/600` blocks per slot
-   The users finds that running a Storage Provider costs them `$4 USD per week`

**Validators**

-   All 10 slots filled
-   Lowest current stake in the pool is `2500 tJOY`
-   Rewards are `575 tJOY/100800 blocks` in total
-   The users finds that running a Storage Provider costs them `$1 USD per week`

**Council Members:**

-   New election is running, with 6 slots
-   It is assumed `4000 tJOY` will be enough to earn a slot
-   Rewards are `300 tJOY/100800` blocks per CM

**Curator:**

-   The lead and 2 slots are filled, 1 slot is open for application
-   Stake required is `500 tJOY`
-   Rewards are `5 tJOY/3600` blocks per slot for curators
-   The lead earns `12tJOY/3600` blocks

> The user assume that on average, the KPIs will return 150 USD this week, and decides to calculate their EV for each option, assuming:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user assume that on average, the KPIs will return 150 USD this week, and decides to calculate their own expected return for each option, assuming:
```
